src/posts/dev-102.md, before:

---
title: "Dev 102: Stripe.com's scrolling logo bubbles"
date: 2019-01-13
layout: post.njk
---
<h2 class="page-subtitle">Reverse engineering the _logo bubbles_</h2>

<div class="figure figure__video">
    <video style="width: 100%; max-width: 720px" autoplay loop muted playsinline>
        <source src="/media/posts/dev/102/logo-bubbles.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
    </video>
</div>

<a href="#final-example">↓ Skip to the finished result</a>

Welcome! This is the second article in the _Dev_ series, where I attempt to explain and recreate interesting front-end dev techiniques I run across on the web.

We're going back to Stripe.com again for this article. But this time we'll do something with motion. Let's see if we can recreate the logo bubbles (see movie above) from the [Stripe Customers page](https://stripe.com/us/customers).

At-a-glance we can see a few interesting challenges:

1. Randomly generating and placing the bubbles on page load
2. Animating the smooth up and down movement
3. Looping the animation infinitely

Our strategy for this will be to work on the atomic elements (the bubbles), then on placing them, and finally animating them.

## Part 1: Creating the bubble

### Set up an empty bubble

Create an element with equal width and height, and then turn this square into a circle by setting `border-radius: 50%`. If you want to nerd out about how exactly a border-radius value affects a shape, check out this [Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/29966500/400407).

<p data-height="270" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="WLKEJP" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.0" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/WLKEJP/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.0</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Add the logo

Stripe combines all the logos into a single image file, which is called a spritesheet. You can see it here:

<div class="figure max-width">
  <img src="/media/posts/dev/102/logo-spritesheet.png" alt="A grid of company logos.">
</div>

Using a spritesheet is a handy technique to reduce the number of HTTP requests the browser has to make. In this case, 1 file vs 43 files, a big performance win.

Now back to our code&hellip; we'll take the logo spritesheet and set it as the background for each of the bubbles. We'll then adjust the size of the spritesheet with the `background-size` CSS property so that one logo in the image is the size of one bubble.


<pre><code class="prism language-css line-numbers">.bubble {
  background-image: url(stripe-logo-bubbles-spritesheet.png);
  background-size: 1076px 1076px;
}</code></pre>

 And then we can use the `background-position` property to shift the image's position in each bubble and reveal different logos.

<pre><code class="prism language-css line-numbers">.logo1 {
  background-position: 0 0;
}

.logo2 {
  background-position: 0 -154px;
}

.logo3 {
  background-position: 0 -308px;
}</code></pre>

<p data-height="300" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="Ydjrad" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.1 - Add logos" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/Ydjrad/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.1 - Add logos</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

We'll create the rest of the bubbles in the next section, and we'll do it dynamically with Javascript.

## Part 2: Placing and sizing the bubbles

To better understand the placement and sizing logic used, let's take a bird's eye view of the entire header. To do this, open your browser's dev tools and apply <code>transform: scale(0.2)</code> to the header area. This is what we see:

<div class="figure">
  <img src="/media/posts/dev/102/logo-bubbles-panoramic.png" alt="A wide image of company logos in circles.">
</div>

There isn't a quickly discernable pattern. But one thing we notice is that the general placement and sizing of the bubbles is the same on every page load, it's just the logos that are randomized.

Let's peek at the original code to see if we can get to the bottom of this:

<div class="figure max-width">
  <img src="/media/posts/dev/102/bubbles-array.gif" alt="A wide image of company logos in circles.">
</div>

Found it! The positions and sizes are hard coded. Let's copy and paste the values in our code and use it to generate all the bubbles on the fly. We won't worry about randomizing the logos for this exercise.

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">const bubbles = [{
  s: .6,
  x: 1134,
  y: 45
}, {
  s: .6,
  x: 1620,
  y: 271
},
  ...
];

bubbles.forEach((bubble, index) => {
  let el = document.createElement("div");

  el.className = `bubble logo${index + 1}`;
  el.style.transform = `translate(${bubble.x}px, ${bubble.y}px) scale(${bubble.s})`;

  bubblesEl.appendChild(el);
})</code></pre>

<p data-height="640" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="gZQJBz" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.2 - Place and size logos" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/gZQJBz/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.2 - Place and size logos</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>


## Part 3: Animating and looping

### Structuring our code

Before we start animating, let's add some structure to our code so we can support new features and keep things tidy. We'll create two new classes: <code>Bubbles</code> and <code>Bubble</code>.

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">class Bubbles {
  constructor() { } // For creating the individual bubbles.
  update() { }      // Will be called every frame.
}

class Bubble {
  constructor() { }
  update() { }      // Will be called every frame. Updates the bubble positionn.
}</code></pre>

### Adding scrolling (and keeping it performant)

1. **Use transforms**

  There are two layout related properties that browsers can animate cheaply, thanks to support from the GPU, and these are: `opacity` and `transform`. It is tempting to use the `top` and `left` CSS values to move elements around, but modifying them triggers expensive layout calculations that can cause slowdown. Stick to `transform` and `opacity`. In our case, we'll use transforms to move the bubbles around.

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">const SCROLL_SPEED = 0.3; // Pixels to move per frame. At 60fps, this would be 18px a sec.

this.x = this.x - SCROLL_SPEED;
if (this.x <  -200) {
  this.x = CANVAS_WIDTH;
}
style.transform = `translate(${this.x}px, ${this.y}px)`;
</code></pre>

2. **Use requestAnimationFrame**

  If you ever catch yourself using `setInterval` to build out an animation, stop what you're doing, and go read about [requestAnimationFrame](https://flaviocopes.com/requestanimationframe/).

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">class Bubbles {
  update() {
    // Call each individual bubble's update method
    this.bubbles.forEach(bubble => bubble.update());

    // Queue up another update() method call on the next frame
    requestAnimationFrame(this.update.bind(this))
  }
}</code></pre>

<p data-height="640" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="NeEZyP" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.3 - Animating and looping" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/NeEZyP/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.3 - Animating and looping</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Making the animation feel organic

We have movement, but it feels stale. How do we get that organic bobbing and weaving that the [Stripe page](https://stripe.com/us/customers) has? We could create three or four predefined CSS animations and apply them with random delays to the bubbles. That world probably work, but there is a  more elegant solution... inject some noise, _perlin noise_ to be specific.

**Perlin noise** is an algorithm for generating 'randomness'. But unlike your normal `Math.random()` output which produces random values that have no relationship with the previously generated values, perlin noise allows us to create a sequence of 'random' values that have some order and create a smooth, organic appearance.

The easiest way to understand the difference is to plot the values out. In the diagram below, we plot the output of `Math.random()` on top and the output of `noise.simplex2()`, a 2d perlin noise function, on the bottom.

<div class="figure" style="width: 100%">
  <canvas id="canvas-perlin"></canvas>
  <figcaption>
    <button class="button" id="perlin-replay-btn">Generate new values</button>
  </figcaption>
</div>

<br>
Here is our Bubble class's `update()` method before:

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">update() {
  this.x = this.x - SCROLL_SPEED;
  if (this.x <  -200) {
    this.x = CANVAS_WIDTH;
  }
  this.el.style.transform = `translate(${this.x}px, ${this.y}px) scale(${this.scale})`;
}</code></pre>

And here it is after introducing _perlin noise_:

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">const NOISE_SPEED = 0.004; // The frequency. Smaller for flat slopes, higher for jagged spikes.
const NOISE_AMOUNT = 5;    // The amplitude. The amount the noise affects the movement.

update() {
  this.noiseSeedX += NOISE_SPEED;
  this.noiseSeedY += NOISE_SPEED;

  // The noise library we're using: https://github.com/josephg/noisejs
  let randomX = noise.simplex2(this.noiseSeedX, 0);
  let randomY = noise.simplex2(this.noiseSeedY, 0);

  this.x -= SCROLL_SPEED;
  this.xWithNoise = this.x + (randomX * NOISE_AMOUNT);
  this.yWithNoise = this.y + (randomY * NOISE_AMOUNT)

  if (this.x <  -200) {
    this.x = CANVAS_WIDTH;
  }

  this.el.style.transform = `translate(${this.xWithNoise}px, ${this.yWithNoise}px) scale(${this.scale})`;
}</code></pre>

I'm keeping the perlin noise implementation discussion brief in this article, so if you have questions or want to learn more, I'd recommend checking out the [Introduction](https://natureofcode.com/book/introduction/) from _The Nature of Code_.

With the perlin noise added and the noise parameters finetuned...

---

## 🏁 Logo bubbles

<a id="final-example"></a>
<p data-height="640" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="GPPKGQ" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 3.1 - Perlin noise" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/GPPKGQ/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 3.1 - Perlin noise</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

I hope you enjoyed this post and learned something new. If you did enjoy it, check out the [full listing of posts](/blog/) for more from the _Dev_ series.

And <a href="#" class="js-email-link">send me your thoughts</a> while they are fresh in your mind. What parts did you like? What parts were confusing? What would you like to learn about next?

And lastly, follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lokesh) to find out when the next post is up.

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/stripe.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/prism.css">

<script src="/js/prism.min.js"></script>




<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/stripe.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/prism.css">

<script src="/js/prism.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/josephg/noisejs/master/perlin.js"></script>

<script>

const canvas = document.getElementById('canvas-perlin');
const ctx = canvas.getContext('2d');

// Set display size (css pixels).
let width = canvas.parentElement.offsetWidth;
let height = 400;

// setInterval
let plotting;

function setupCanvas() {
  canvas.style.width = width + 'px';
  canvas.style.height = height + 'px';

  // Set actual size in memory (scaled to account for extra pixel density).
  let scale = window.devicePixelRatio; // <--- Change to 1 on retina screens to see blurry canvas.
  canvas.width = width * scale;
  canvas.height = height * scale;

  // Normalize coordinate system to use css pixels.
  ctx.scale(scale, scale);
}

function clearCanvas() {
  ctx.fillStyle = '#eee';
  ctx.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
}

function startPlotting() {
  let x = 0;
  let noiseSpeed = 0.02;

  plotting = setInterval(() => {
    x += 4;

    /* Random noise */
    ctx.beginPath();
    ctx.arc(x, Math.random() * (height / 2),  2, 0, 2 * Math.PI, false)
    ctx.fillStyle = '#f96a38';
    ctx.fill();

    /* Perlin noise */
    let noisey = (noise.simplex2(noiseSeed, 0));
    noiseSeed += noiseSpeed;
    ctx.beginPath();
    ctx.arc(x, (noisey * (height / 4)) + (height * 0.75),  2, 0, 2 * Math.PI, false)
    ctx.fillStyle = '#f96a38';
    ctx.fill();

    if (x > canvas.width) {
      stopPlotting();
    }
  }, 50)
}

function stopPlotting() {
  clearInterval(plotting);
}

noise.seed(Math.floor(Math.random() * 64000));
let noiseSeed = 0;

setupCanvas();
clearCanvas();
startPlotting();

document.getElementById('perlin-replay-btn').addEventListener('click', () => {
  stopPlotting();
  clearCanvas();
  startPlotting();
})
</script>


<style>
figcaption {
  margin-top: 8px;
}

.button {
  color: white;
  font-weight: 600;
  background: var(--primary-color);
  padding: 8px 12px;
  border-radius: var(--border-radius);
  border: 0;
}
</style>

Commit message:

102: Add link to performant anim article

src/posts/dev-102.md, after:

---
title: "Dev 102: Stripe.com's scrolling logo bubbles"
date: 2019-01-13
layout: post.njk
---
<h2 class="page-subtitle">Reverse engineering the _logo bubbles_</h2>

<div class="figure figure__video">
    <video style="width: 100%; max-width: 720px" autoplay loop muted playsinline>
        <source src="/media/posts/dev/102/logo-bubbles.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
    </video>
</div>

<a href="#final-example">↓ Skip to the finished result</a>

Welcome! This is the second article in the _Dev_ series, where I attempt to explain and recreate interesting front-end dev techiniques I run across on the web.

We're going back to Stripe.com again for this article. But this time we'll do something with motion. Let's see if we can recreate the logo bubbles (see movie above) from the [Stripe Customers page](https://stripe.com/us/customers).

At-a-glance we can see a few interesting challenges:

1. Randomly generating and placing the bubbles on page load
2. Animating the smooth up and down movement
3. Looping the animation infinitely

Our strategy for this will be to work on the atomic elements (the bubbles), then on placing them, and finally animating them.

## Part 1: Creating the bubble

### Set up an empty bubble

Create an element with equal width and height, and then turn this square into a circle by setting `border-radius: 50%`. If you want to nerd out about how exactly a border-radius value affects a shape, check out this [Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/29966500/400407).

<p data-height="270" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="WLKEJP" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.0" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/WLKEJP/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.0</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Add the logo

Stripe combines all the logos into a single image file, which is called a spritesheet. You can see it here:

<div class="figure max-width">
  <img src="/media/posts/dev/102/logo-spritesheet.png" alt="A grid of company logos.">
</div>

Using a spritesheet is a handy technique to reduce the number of HTTP requests the browser has to make. In this case, 1 file vs 43 files, a big performance win.

Now back to our code&hellip; we'll take the logo spritesheet and set it as the background for each of the bubbles. We'll then adjust the size of the spritesheet with the `background-size` CSS property so that one logo in the image is the size of one bubble.


<pre><code class="prism language-css line-numbers">.bubble {
  background-image: url(stripe-logo-bubbles-spritesheet.png);
  background-size: 1076px 1076px;
}</code></pre>

 And then we can use the `background-position` property to shift the image's position in each bubble and reveal different logos.

<pre><code class="prism language-css line-numbers">.logo1 {
  background-position: 0 0;
}

.logo2 {
  background-position: 0 -154px;
}

.logo3 {
  background-position: 0 -308px;
}</code></pre>

<p data-height="300" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="Ydjrad" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.1 - Add logos" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/Ydjrad/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.1 - Add logos</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

We'll create the rest of the bubbles in the next section, and we'll do it dynamically with Javascript.

## Part 2: Placing and sizing the bubbles

To better understand the placement and sizing logic used, let's take a bird's eye view of the entire header. To do this, open your browser's dev tools and apply <code>transform: scale(0.2)</code> to the header area. This is what we see:

<div class="figure">
  <img src="/media/posts/dev/102/logo-bubbles-panoramic.png" alt="A wide image of company logos in circles.">
</div>

There isn't a quickly discernable pattern. But one thing we notice is that the general placement and sizing of the bubbles is the same on every page load, it's just the logos that are randomized.

Let's peek at the original code to see if we can get to the bottom of this:

<div class="figure max-width">
  <img src="/media/posts/dev/102/bubbles-array.gif" alt="A wide image of company logos in circles.">
</div>

Found it! The positions and sizes are hard coded. Let's copy and paste the values in our code and use it to generate all the bubbles on the fly. We won't worry about randomizing the logos for this exercise.

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">const bubbles = [{
  s: .6,
  x: 1134,
  y: 45
}, {
  s: .6,
  x: 1620,
  y: 271
},
  ...
];

bubbles.forEach((bubble, index) => {
  let el = document.createElement("div");

  el.className = `bubble logo${index + 1}`;
  el.style.transform = `translate(${bubble.x}px, ${bubble.y}px) scale(${bubble.s})`;

  bubblesEl.appendChild(el);
})</code></pre>

<p data-height="640" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="gZQJBz" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.2 - Place and size logos" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/gZQJBz/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.2 - Place and size logos</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>


## Part 3: Animating and looping

### Structuring our code

Before we start animating, let's add some structure to our code so we can support new features and keep things tidy. We'll create two new classes: <code>Bubbles</code> and <code>Bubble</code>.

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">class Bubbles {
  constructor() { } // For creating the individual bubbles.
  update() { }      // Will be called every frame.
}

class Bubble {
  constructor() { }
  update() { }      // Will be called every frame. Updates the bubble positionn.
}</code></pre>

### Adding scrolling (and keeping it performant)

1. **Use transforms**

  There are two layout related properties that browsers can animate cheaply, thanks to support from the GPU, and these are: `opacity` and `transform`. It is tempting to use the `top` and `left` CSS values to move elements around, but modifying them triggers expensive layout calculations that can cause slowdown, so stick to `transform` and `opacity`. In our case, we'll use transforms to move the bubbles around.

  If you'd like to learn more about creating performant animations, check out this classic [HTML5 Rocks article](https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/speed/high-performance-animations/).

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">const SCROLL_SPEED = 0.3; // Pixels to move per frame. At 60fps, this would be 18px a sec.

this.x = this.x - SCROLL_SPEED;
if (this.x <  -200) {
  this.x = CANVAS_WIDTH;
}
style.transform = `translate(${this.x}px, ${this.y}px)`;
</code></pre>

2. **Use requestAnimationFrame**

  If you ever catch yourself using `setInterval` to build out an animation, stop what you're doing, and go read about [requestAnimationFrame](https://flaviocopes.com/requestanimationframe/).

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">class Bubbles {
  update() {
    // Call each individual bubble's update method
    this.bubbles.forEach(bubble => bubble.update());

    // Queue up another update() method call on the next frame
    requestAnimationFrame(this.update.bind(this))
  }
}</code></pre>

<p data-height="640" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="NeEZyP" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.3 - Animating and looping" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/NeEZyP/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 1.3 - Animating and looping</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Making the animation feel organic

We have movement, but it feels stale. How do we get that organic bobbing and weaving that the [Stripe page](https://stripe.com/us/customers) has? We could create three or four predefined CSS animations and apply them with random delays to the bubbles. That world probably work, but there is a  more elegant solution... inject some noise, _perlin noise_ to be specific.

**Perlin noise** is an algorithm for generating 'randomness'. But unlike your normal `Math.random()` output which produces random values that have no relationship with the previously generated values, perlin noise allows us to create a sequence of 'random' values that have some order and create a smooth, organic appearance.

The easiest way to understand the difference is to plot the values out. In the diagram below, we plot the output of `Math.random()` on top and the output of `noise.simplex2()`, a 2d perlin noise function, on the bottom.

<div class="figure" style="width: 100%">
  <canvas id="canvas-perlin"></canvas>
  <figcaption>
    <button class="button" id="perlin-replay-btn">Generate new values</button>
  </figcaption>
</div>

<br>
Here is our Bubble class's `update()` method before:

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">update() {
  this.x = this.x - SCROLL_SPEED;
  if (this.x <  -200) {
    this.x = CANVAS_WIDTH;
  }
  this.el.style.transform = `translate(${this.x}px, ${this.y}px) scale(${this.scale})`;
}</code></pre>

And here it is after introducing _perlin noise_:

<pre><code class="prism language-js line-numbers">const NOISE_SPEED = 0.004; // The frequency. Smaller for flat slopes, higher for jagged spikes.
const NOISE_AMOUNT = 5;    // The amplitude. The amount the noise affects the movement.

update() {
  this.noiseSeedX += NOISE_SPEED;
  this.noiseSeedY += NOISE_SPEED;

  // The noise library we're using: https://github.com/josephg/noisejs
  let randomX = noise.simplex2(this.noiseSeedX, 0);
  let randomY = noise.simplex2(this.noiseSeedY, 0);

  this.x -= SCROLL_SPEED;
  this.xWithNoise = this.x + (randomX * NOISE_AMOUNT);
  this.yWithNoise = this.y + (randomY * NOISE_AMOUNT)

  if (this.x <  -200) {
    this.x = CANVAS_WIDTH;
  }

  this.el.style.transform = `translate(${this.xWithNoise}px, ${this.yWithNoise}px) scale(${this.scale})`;
}</code></pre>

I'm keeping the perlin noise implementation discussion brief in this article, so if you have questions or want to learn more, I'd recommend checking out the [Introduction](https://natureofcode.com/book/introduction/) from _The Nature of Code_.

With the perlin noise added and the noise parameters finetuned...

---

## 🏁 Logo bubbles

<a id="final-example"></a>
<p data-height="640" data-theme-id="35671" data-slug-hash="GPPKGQ" data-default-tab="result" data-user="lokesh" data-pen-title="Stripe - Logo Bubble 3.1 - Perlin noise" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh/pen/GPPKGQ/">Stripe - Logo Bubble 3.1 - Perlin noise</a> by Lokesh Dhakar (<a href="https://codepen.io/lokesh">@lokesh</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

I hope you enjoyed this post and learned something new. If you did enjoy it, check out the [full listing of posts](/blog/) for more from the _Dev_ series.

And <a href="#" class="js-email-link">send me your thoughts</a> while they are fresh in your mind. What parts did you like? What parts were confusing? What would you like to learn about next?

And lastly, follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lokesh) to find out when the next post is up.

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/stripe.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/prism.css">

<script src="/js/prism.min.js"></script>




<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/stripe.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/prism.css">

<script src="/js/prism.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/josephg/noisejs/master/perlin.js"></script>

<script>

const canvas = document.getElementById('canvas-perlin');
const ctx = canvas.getContext('2d');

// Set display size (css pixels).
let width = canvas.parentElement.offsetWidth;
let height = 400;

// setInterval
let plotting;

function setupCanvas() {
  canvas.style.width = width + 'px';
  canvas.style.height = height + 'px';

  // Set actual size in memory (scaled to account for extra pixel density).
  let scale = window.devicePixelRatio; // <--- Change to 1 on retina screens to see blurry canvas.
  canvas.width = width * scale;
  canvas.height = height * scale;

  // Normalize coordinate system to use css pixels.
  ctx.scale(scale, scale);
}

function clearCanvas() {
  ctx.fillStyle = '#eee';
  ctx.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
}

function startPlotting() {
  let x = 0;
  let noiseSpeed = 0.02;

  plotting = setInterval(() => {
    x += 4;

    /* Random noise */
    ctx.beginPath();
    ctx.arc(x, Math.random() * (height / 2),  2, 0, 2 * Math.PI, false)
    ctx.fillStyle = '#f96a38';
    ctx.fill();

    /* Perlin noise */
    let noisey = (noise.simplex2(noiseSeed, 0));
    noiseSeed += noiseSpeed;
    ctx.beginPath();
    ctx.arc(x, (noisey * (height / 4)) + (height * 0.75),  2, 0, 2 * Math.PI, false)
    ctx.fillStyle = '#f96a38';
    ctx.fill();

    if (x > canvas.width) {
      stopPlotting();
    }
  }, 50)
}

function stopPlotting() {
  clearInterval(plotting);
}

noise.seed(Math.floor(Math.random() * 64000));
let noiseSeed = 0;

setupCanvas();
clearCanvas();
startPlotting();

document.getElementById('perlin-replay-btn').addEventListener('click', () => {
  stopPlotting();
  clearCanvas();
  startPlotting();
})
</script>


<style>
figcaption {
  margin-top: 8px;
}

.button {
  color: white;
  font-weight: 600;
  background: var(--primary-color);
  padding: 8px 12px;
  border-radius: var(--border-radius);
  border: 0;
}
</style>
